# elm-community

This is a meta-repository for organizational stuff related to elm-community.
The idea is that we can use the 'issues' to discuss organzational questions,
and we can use this file (README.md) to document organizational things.
(Eventually, we may want to link with other documents, or use the 'wiki'
feature, but starting with a simple README seems reasonable).

* [Mandate](#mandate)
    * [Package Maintenance](#package-maintenance)
    * [Community-driven Documentation](#community-driven-documentation)
* [Getting involved](#getting-involved)
    * [Issues and pull requests](#issues-and-pull-requests)
    * [Become a collaborator](#become-a-collaborator)
    * [Become a team member](#become-a-team-member)
    * [Owners](#owners)

## Mandate

The idea behind elm-community is to have a shared, unofficial home for certain
kinds of collaborative Elm-related work.

Now, why might that be useful? Without something like elm-community, work is
either located within the core of [elm-lang](https://github/elm-lang), or it 
is located in individual (or corporate) accounts. So, elm-community is a kind
of "middle ground" between those two.

So, why might such a middle ground be useful? So far, we've identified two areas:
package maintenance and community-driven documentation.

### Package Maintenance

It sometimes happens that packages which are widely used need a bit of
maintenance -- for instance, to accommodate changes in Elm, or for other
reasons. Normally, package authors will deal with that themselves, of course,
possibly with the help of pull requests from interested community members etc.
However, sometimes package authors may not be available, for one reason or
another, and other work can be blocked until the maintenance is performed.

In such cases, it is certainly possible for some individual to fork the
package, do the necessary maintenance, and publish it themselves -- and we do
not wish to discourage that. However, there may be cases where people don't
want to take on the implicit obligations involved in maintaining a published
package -- and yet, it needs to be done.

In those cases, elm-community can provide a home for a fork, and the necessary
work to maintain the package.

Here are a few principles we might follow in this area:

1. If you think there is a package that should be adopted here, feel free to
   open an issue in this repository. (And, to repeat, this is not to discourage
   you from adopting a package yourself, if you want to take that on).

2. For the most part, we don't expect to do innovative work on packages here.
   That is, to the extent that innovative new features can be added to a
   package, that should mostly be done in people's individual accounts. What
   we'll do here is mostly maintenance. However, there may be some exceptions,
   in cases where there are good reasons to do innovative work here.

### Community-driven Documentation

Elm has great documentation, but there is always room for more, and room for
documentation oriented towards particular audiences. Now, people can write
documentation on their own, but that can be a bit of a daunting prospect.
Plus, ultimately, documentation needs to be published, or integrated somewhere,
so some kind of central location is useful. So, this can serve as a central
point for.

## Getting Involved

So, suppose you'd like to get involved in elm-community. What can you do?

### Issues and pull requests

We welcome issues and pull requests, in the usual way. That is, you can create
an issue if you have a request or see a problem. Or, you you can fork anything
here, make some changes, and send a pull request.

### Become a collaborator

If you want 'write' access to a specific repository, so that you can maintain
it directly, any team member can grant you 'collaborator' status on a
particular repository. Perhaps the easiest way to ask is to create an issue on
the repository you're interested in.

We plan to be fairly liberal in granting 'write' access. However, if we're not
familiar with your work from Github or the mailing list, we might ask that you
work from issues and pull requests first for a while. When you get write
access, we expect to work from consensus and exercise good judgment. If issues
arise, we can always revert commits and have a discussion.

### Become a team member

Currently, we have three teams: Packages, Guides and Manifesto. Each repository
is assigned to one of those teams. Team members will keep an eye on issues and
pull requests and respond as they are able.

In addition to write access to the team's repositories, team members can also
add collaborators, and create new repositories.

If you'd like to be a team member, probably the best way to ask is to create an
issue in this repository (Manifesto). I suppose we'll be a little less liberal
about making people team members. However, there certainly are a number of
people who would be well-suited for that role.

### Owners

For your information, the 'owner' of elm-community (in Github terms) is
@rgrempel. So, feel free to contact me if there are things that need to be
done that require an 'owner'.
